Niche strategy is something I think
we all have to understand
well because it has a number
of advantages.
Let us see them.
And we have...
This is the best option in many cases.
Focus on a niche, a very
specific customer person.
Let's compare two proposals, right?
We will compare Deport Village,
which is an e-commerce where
you can buy sports equipment,
etc., of many different categories,
of many sports.
And we'll compare it to our
Padel, which in this case is
specialized in Padel.
This is a niche strategy.
It is directed to a customer person,
who are the fans of the Padel.
So what are the advantages?
We will relate it to this example,
but it is that they are the
advantages that always apply
when you go to a niche, when
you specialize in a very
specific customer person.
We could summarize it with one
word, which is focus.
You focus, in this case, on
the fans of the Padel.
Only in them.
You are not, say, wearing
up with fans of many
sports.
So focusing leads you to being able
to know them better than anyone
else.
Padel our, because the
knowledge you will have of the
Padel fans, what they like, the
brands they value, what they are
willing to pay, what they do,
everything.
You will know him better than anyone else in the world.
If you had to address many
different customer persons,
many different segments,
it would be more complicated.
It also has advantages in
marketing.
Because when you go to a niche,
in relation to going to the mass
market, campaigns, etc.,
where to find them, what channels
to use, it is easier, because
they are located.
Hanty is a platform that connects
cotos and organics with hunters.
Well, it is he has to go to
the hunters.
It is easy to go to the hunters.
But if instead, if they had to address
the entire population, then millions
would have to be spent on digital
marketing.
But it is that hunters, it is easy
to locate them, is a very clear
example of niche.
They are in groups, etc.
Therefore, it has advantages in
terms of marketing.
You can do more laser marketing.
Another advantage is that you
enter a niche, start competing
in a niche, steal market share
there, because you know the customers
and the big players, the general
competitors, the category
killers, whatever.
You are a little boy
who is giving you a
niche.
To begin with, they are not able to
compete with you because they don't know
that niche so well.
For example, we have to say that,
Depor Vilas versus Pa del Nuestro.
Well, that is, in the end, that is
the niche of bread of our own.
Depor Villas offers products of
all kinds.
And as you are hurting
general competitors, but
you are not competing
with them frontally,
you are not facing
them frontally.
Instead, if you face a category
killer first, because they
perceive much more threat,
they will respond,
etc.
The result is that you will get to
know your customers very well, that
it is easy to get to them, that
you can...
Well, because what you can do when
you are in a niche is easier for you
to make yourself strong in that
niche, until you can create up to
a monopoly, you can win a lot of
market share with the advantages
you have that you have the best
in something, with all the
advantages it has.
Instead, if you want to enter with
a less segmented proposal,
in many segments and others, it
is that everything is much more
difficult.
Win more difficult odds, meet
customers more difficult, etc.
I think the advantages of the niche are
quite clear and there are cases where
it is the best recommendation
in the world.
Especially when we are talking
about you will launch new products,
new services, especially
when they are innovative, when
you are an entrepreneur, it is
that the best, the best recommendation
is that you focus on
a very specific niche.
So what is the key here?
The key is what we are saying.
You have to be able to
identify and focus and focus
on a very specific, very
specific customer person
that you know very well.
What do I mean by this?
You have to know him, you have
to know what it hurts, what they
think of you, what they want
in life, I don't know how you
make the decisions.
You have to know it perfectly,
that niche, because that's what
you're focusing on.
And it's that the rest, you haven'
t segmented so much, is not able
to put so much focus because
it's shooting everyone.
So the key is that.
The key is to focus on a niche
or a very, very, very, very
specific customer person.
The more specific, the better.
And as you can see, we're not talking
about being specific in terms of
demographic variables and so, no,
no, no.
We have to have done the duties
well before, remember the segmentation.
The customer person we have to have
understood very well and we
have to put a lot of focus on it.
Let's take an example, right?
Let us compare the proposals.
Imagine you are entering the
market of lawyers.
You can focus on
a niche for startups.
A lawyer's office that also helps
in very specific things like raising
capital.
You are getting strong there.
And the big Garrigues offices and
others, well, you don't do much
harm to them.
They have people, but they
are not experts.
You can give him a few teeth.
The Real Estate Agency.
The Madrid group of my friend Genaro.
Well, because he was also a generalist
real estate agency and
what he decided is to specialize
in a very specific niche
in transfer of hostel locations.
And since he decided that, he made that
pivot, he made that strategic
decision and he is much better off
because he is the one who knows
this best in the world.
He knows the players, knows
what it hurts, can advance,
is aware of all operations,
etc.
This is a very clear
niche strategy.
We'll think of the consultancy sector,
the offices that have thousands
of services.
And now we will think of one company
that is Noll Consulting, of my
friend Eduardo Bustamante, which
is specialized in a very
specific service, which is
savings in the IBI, in the
real estate tax.
They make a cadastral assessment,
identify errors and help
companies that have real estate
assets save on the payment
of the IBI every year.
Find out what a more brutal specialization.
But it's that of course, as they've
specialized in that and don't do more
things, they're the best in this.
The best ones.
And they have become leaders and there
is no one because they have created
almost a monopoly on this.
The Carnival.
The carnival usually offers
everything.
Well, a Rioja carnicer, Pepe
Chuletón, has specialized in
Chuletón.
Brilliant brand positioning,
brilliant specialization.
Well, because a brand has been created
there and grows much more than
any carnage thanks to this,
thanks to understanding well
the niche strategy of specialization.
More of examples?
I do not know.
We'll think about the sector of astreries,
fashion, costumes on a custom,
etc.
Absolute Spoke by Tommy Lasso.
Well, because he is specialized in
a specific niche, in a specific
personal cast that is people, because
that, who likes fashion a lot,
with purchasing power and more.
And Tommy understands himself better than anyone.
They understand them like no one else
in the world.
It is impossible to compete with Tommy there.
It is the result of that.
It is the result that he has focused on
a very specific niche and there he does
not throw anyone.